
-- Telecom Domain 5G Launch Data Analysis Dashboard
Analyzing the dataset of a telecom company to track it's important KPIs, compare post and pre 5G launch performance and performing market competition analysis to provide insights to the executives in the telecom domain using Power BI.

-- Problem Statement
AtliQo is one of the leading telecom providers in India and launched its 5G plans in May 2022 along with other telecom providers.

However, the management noticed a decline in their active users and revenue growth post 5G launch in May 2022. AtliQo’s business director requested their analytics team to provide a comparison report of KPIs between pre and post-periods of the 5G launch. The management is keen to compare the performance between these periods and get insights that would enable them to make informed decisions to recover their active user rate and other key metrics. They also wonder if they can optimize their internet plans to get more active users.

Task
Create the metrics according to the metrics list.

The target audience of this dashboard is top-level management - hence the dashboard should be self-explanatory and easy to understand.

Create relevant insights not provided in the metric list/stakeholder meeting.

Overview:
Company's total revenue is for the months Jan-Sep is 31.87 Billion Rupees.
Currently AtliQo has a network of Around 18.82 Million Active Users as of September.
Earns around Rs.200 on average per user.
Average rate of churn is more than 7%.
There is a slight decrease in revenue of AtliQo after launching of 5G.
Churn rate has also increased around 2% after 5G Launch.
Pune have the most active users followed by Mumbai and Kolkata.
Mumbai has generated the most revenue followed by Delhi, Kolkata and Banglore.
Our company has the third highest market share, behind by PIO and Britel.
Pre and Post 5G Analysis:
There is a little(0.5%) drop in the average revenue after 5G launch.
Average Revenue per User has increased around 11%.
There is high drop in the active users of the company, also the churn rate has increased significantly.
There are approx 12% less active users as compared to pre 5G era.
Average Monthly churn rate has increased up to 23.5%, is it due to increased pricings and lack of availabilty of 5G?
In some cities like Pune and Chandigarh, there is a significant increase in the active users with around 70%-80% more as compared to before 5G era.
But some cities has a drastic decrease in the active user rate like in Coimbatore there is a decrease of approx. 42% is user base. Is due to lack of infrastructure and facilities?
Churn rate is a big problem after 5G launch, all the cities has large churn rates, Lucknow and Pune has the highest of approx 78% and 55%.
Market and Competitiors Analysis:
Our Company has the third highest share of 17.84% behind PIO(36.73%) and Britel(27.42%).
Currently we are facing around 10% less growth in the market share as of September which is the lowest among the competitors.
All other competitors are growing positively in the market share.
About
Analyzing the dataset of a telecom company to track it's important KPIs, compare post and pre 5G launch performance and performing market competition analysis to provide insights to the executives in the telecom domain.


